[Music]
hello Internet I hope you're having a
fabulous day I bought this Canon 81 35
millimeter film camera a few months ago
for a little over $100 but I had never
shot film before I've shot digital video
and photo for years and years and years
so I understand manual controls but
still film intimidates me over the past
few weeks I have been traveling around
California and I said what a perfect
opportunity to shoot my first roll of
film I'm not only going to share it with
you just that journey but if you are
someone who never thought about dabbling
in film and maybe you dabbling dabbing
in film if you are at least a little bit
interested in shooting film but you
don't know how I want to give you the
tools to shoot film for the first time
so we are going to kick things off with
getting a little bit of help from my
friends at mango Street it is a
incredible YouTube channel and then
we'll go adventure around California and
taking film pictures and then the big
reveal my first roll of film
[Music]
I'm Daniel tomato and we run a channel
called mango street we teach photography
and on their channel that you guys can
check out but this camera this is a
Canon AE one film camera so let's hit
just the basics how does one load the
film to a film camera we're just gonna
lift up the rewind real here
and open the back of the camera so then
we'll just pull some of it out and we
have slots right here on the take-up
reel I'm gonna feed it and you can use
the top tube right
yeah once it's a once it gets in you
kinda want a little bit at the other
side of the reel so it latches on you
line up the sprockets with those right
there and I can see it wrapped around
and now you can close the back push this
down and then we'll take a few exposures
until we get to zero on our counter see
that's your I sit right there so then
what you do is based on the kind of film
you get that's how you know what your
ISO so the 100 there is one hundred
speed film so you take your ISO to point
one hundred so then when you're exposing
in the camera your meter knows what kind
of ISO film right okay and so you've set
it all up so you push this and then turn
this knob so we'll set that to 100 when
you are setting up your shot you have a
built-in light meter that will tell you
how to expose your shot whether it's
underexposed but it's properly exposed
and that'll help you adjust your
settings like the shutter speed
[Music]
so we're shooting this chair right now
we need to check the exposure and if
it's not working within your camera you
can actually get an app what does this
app call it just slides online here okay
so the film is 100 and then since it's
so bright the highest shutter speed that
is the fastest shutter speed is 1000
camera come on and then so it'll tell
you what your aperture should be so if
you're shooting this chair it should be
probably update my first film picture
ever and have a beautiful subject
so we already properly exposed with that
handy ass is it are you wounded wounded
go ahead and do it I don't know you know
it won't let you okay my first film
picture
[Music]
outside of Carmel house is so narrow we
stopped at a beautiful outlook off of
highway 1
[Music]
so I have been going around California
with this thing Carmel outside San
Francisco Santa Barbara LA I've taken 20
pictures and supposedly this film has 36
exposures we're gonna adventure today
there we are and I need to take 16
awesome moments on here we can do that
one day and I got shoes from some skate
shop the ski shop and we had a lovely
brunch so nice a Sunday brunch now we
might do some more errand running
errands in LA the best for taking film
pictures so I was running out of time to
get the film's of all because I gotta go
get it develops like right now so we
came up here it's like the parking
garage of a la College we took the few
snaps that I had left on my roll now
it's time to go get it developed I'm
gonna go to Sammy's camera a lot of
local camera shops will develop film for
you just give them a call hopefully only
take two to three days because I'm about
to leave LA so I need to have it
developed above four I leave we have 20
minutes until Sam use closes but I
watched a tutorial on the way here on
how to unload the phone so hopefully it
works you press this button down here
okay this and you wind it on back
okay so I hear it going back and a
little canister thing I think that's
what's happening so there's no more
friction so that opened up this okay
just take it out boom we got our phone
let's go develop it I didn't that was so
easy looking
I got my phone pictures so I got a
high-res scan and also the pictures like
in physical form crazy came out to be
thirty one dollars and 73 cents
I'm so excited I've been waiting to see
these pictures since I shot in the past
two weeks but only a day to develop so I
got big reveal
[Music]
oh my goodness the time is now time to
react to the pictures that I've been
taking for the past three weeks by now
you've probably seen a few but it's time
to go through all 36 of them by the way
if you guys have enjoyed this video so
far let me know if you liked it hit the
like button down below and subscribe for
new videos every single week here on the
Sara DG channel become part of the
peachy fam things get creative over here
oh my gosh the fact that this is the
first picture so this is when I was
trying to fill up my role very quickly
and I was just like hey John look up we
were going down a stairwell and oh my
gosh this is stunning
being a skater boy
[Music]
oh my gosh okay you're probably like sir
this is just a picture of a plane but
this is taken on the way to this last
spot that we were taking pictures it was
in the car we were on the highway going
60 miles an hour and I had it at a super
high shutter speed because it was super
sunniest you could do it but I wanted to
make sure to capture the plane as I was
all bouncy in the car so super high
shutter speeds when you really can't
keep your hands steady and you need
something that's in motion when you need
to capture that Oh John oh my gosh this
turned out so good this picture I want I
want all of my pictures and video to
look like this picture so pretty even
though this film isn't super super
grainy the colors are amazing they are
like so punchy I just
[Music]
the selfies with mango Street look how
adorable we are that makes me want to
like go out and shoot horn
well that was an absolute blast people
have always said oh there's something
special about film and I'm just like
it's expensive and inconvenient Digital
all day but I will say there is
something special about film photography
and it was fun to learn kind of a new
craft and play around with it and I
think I'm gonna keep taking film
pictures that was fun definitely gonna
try out some new film stocks I hope you
guys learned something or were inspired
in some way make sure to go check out
the video that we did on mango street
channel John and I were models for a
photo shoot that they documented over on
their YouTube channel where you can
learn a lot about photography let me
know if you like this video hit that
subscribe button down below for new
videos every single week until next time
stay peachy okay babe
[Music]